[Music]
people ask me
all the time brandon fugle are you a
believer now yeah the owner of
skinwalker ranch
and i tell them no i'm not a believer
i'm an experiencer what
right there welcome to skinwalker ranch
the world's greatest and most freaky
paranormal hot spot located in the uinta
basin in western utah
if you think sedona arizona dolce new
mexico and joshua tree california are
trippy just wait until you learn about
skinwalker
first a little bit of history
in the 19th century the area primarily
consisted of two indian tribes the
navajo and the youths during the civil
war the utes partnered with the us
government in a battle against the
navajo suffering a brutal defeat and
feeling betrayed the navajo cursed the
local land with skinwalkers
what are skinwalkers you might ask
malevolent shape-shifting entities that
can take various forms but often
resemble demonic werewolves
in the 90s a family named the shermans
took over the ranch and were basically
haunted off the property they
encountered orbs ufos skin walkers and
even got rushed by an oversized bipedal
wolf that they claimed was able to
withstand a close range attack from a
shotgun
all of this anomalous activity caught
the eye of robert bigelow the
vegas-based budget suites billionaire
who has a family history of paranormal
activity and has made it his life's
mission to pour all of his real estate
money into ufos in paranormal research
between 2007 and 2012 it became the
center of study for atip the official
government ufo program led by lou
elizondo because this program was also
run under the auspices of bigelow
aerospace a private company all of the
data from it is both classified and not
subject to the freedom of information
act the only information you can find
about skinwalker from this era lies in
two books the hunt for the skinwalker
and skinwalkers at the pentagon i'm
including links to both below when i
acquired the ranch one of the things
that i found amusing is an old little
golden book lone ranger that had been
discarded long ago the current owner of
the ranch is a guy named brandon fugle
he's a real estate mogul and patron for
frontier science fugl has gathered a
team of hard-headed scientists to gather
real data on all of the bizarre
anomalies around the ranch they've set
up various sensors and run constant
experiments and unlike their government
predecessors they plan to open source
the data and share it with the public i
won't tell you what it is what the
physical significance of this is i just
want you to look at it and tell me if
you see any interesting patterns and
then i'll tell you what it is fugl's
team has encountered some pretty insane
stuff electromagnetic anomalies with
phones electronics and tri field meters
they've seen orbs cattle mutilations
they've personally experienced
biological effects in fact visitors
along with members of their team have
been hospitalized they even have photos
and live footage of ufos in the airspace
of the property
a lot of this is documented in a
fantastic docu-series which can be found
on the history channel and netflix
called the secrets of skinwalker ranch
could an alien craft be creating a
wormhole causing an electromagnetic
fallout affecting visitors of the
property are these wormholes
manipulating space-time what does the
native american history have to do with
these paranormal observables we'll take
you a few steps further down the rabbit
hole on today's long overdue episode of
american alchemy at skinwalker ranch
[Music]
different parts have different
activities
[Music]
you do want to keep things like the loch
ness monster and spoon bending
away from the ufo conversation if you
can't now the thing that goes against
what i'm saying
is something like cattle mutilations
so either somebody is an amazing
sadistic animal hoaxer
or
you have to open the uap story to their
decision to study cattle or leave cattle
as presents for us or who knows what
what in the world one of the most
disturbing things to happen on
skinwalker ranch was when a perfectly
healthy two-year-old heifer cow showed
up dead with no exterior injuries
there's no cat tracks no
sign of struggle middle of the day
they're dead an autopsy revealed that
pneumonia had done the cow in pneumonia
brought on by a severe stressor that
seemed to shock the animal but there
were no tracks of predators nearby
simultaneously the team was picking up
high levels of radiation around the cow
with their em detectors higher levels
than if they were standing in front of a
microwave my phone starts freaking out
whenever your trifield goes off i don't
have any control over my phone right now
brandon and the team check the
surveillance footage in the control room
finding something pretty disturbing the
cow is right here what we'll do is go
forward very slowly and watch what
happens with her it seems like the
moment the cow feels a disturbance a
ufo-shaped object appears directly above
it
the next frame the object is here the
old adage correlation does not imply
causation might apply here but with no
animal tracks a detected radioactive
burst and a mysterious object in the sky
directly above the cow maybe this cattle
mutilation doesn't have a prosaic
explanation the moment
that that object appeared the cow was
reacting
yes
[Music]
one two three
we know this symbol signifies as above
so below the question is why here nobody
knows who made this engraving or why
perhaps it's the work of augustus wally
a legendary buffalo soldier decorated
with the medal of honor the buffalo
soldiers were a group of
african-american cavalry in the 19th
century some thought they had a
background in freemasonry but what about
the message as above so below does this
mean that the earth and its materials
are some low-level instantiation or
reflection of a more platonic realm are
there correlations between the skies and
the ground let's focus on what's below
first
the focal point of most of the
electromagnetic anomalies is the mesa
the rocky ridge that lines the northward
edge of the property fugel's team used
soil resistivity and ground penetrating
radar to basically figure out that there
was a large metallic object buried
underneath the property below the mesa
the group called in a drill expert aaron
blunt to drill into the mesa and find
out what was underneath the drill first
went horizontally but when it attempted
to turn upward it hit a hard object that
it couldn't break through
it should go through that layer pretty
easily but it's not and it's not it
scouted the edges of it and concluded it
was a hard object 400 feet wide buried
in the mesa
they collected hundreds of shards that
were deposited which appeared to be
metal
oh my
they took the samples to a metallurgist
dr ravi chandran who revealed that they
were fused metal and contained europium
and tellurium this means that they were
likely manufactured and not naturally
occurring this material was manufactured
as opposed to a natural occurrence yes
i'm inclined to think that way too
so what the hell were these deliberately
manufactured rare earth elements doing
buried in the mason
characteristic of the ranch when the
group went to get a visual of the
possible ufo with a snake camera a huge
boulder blocked the entrance to the
chamber where the metal object was and
they were once again left in the dark
the group then turned to the sky
the patch of sky that continues to give
the group the most trouble is an area
known as the triangle it seems like
there's some invisible force that
tampers with their equipment every time
they try to measure anything in this
region of the air this time they decided
to use a 15 foot rocket with gps sensors
and chalk that would map and coat any
invisible objects hovering above
after the first rocket launch failed due
to internal combustion they transitioned
to the backup however when the backup
was launched something very strange
happened
it made an abrupt deflection to the west
as if it were avoiding something there
was no wind to push the rocket as
dramatically westward as it went why did
the rocket avoid that one spot directly
above the triangle well it could have
been avoiding a ufo not only did fugel's
whole team see a ufo cameras later
revealed that a ufo came into and out of
the sky at exactly the same time the
rocket was launched oh my gosh
it disappeared can you replay that as
you can see the ufo moves in and out of
the sky seemingly provoked by the rocket
launch there was also very high gamma
radiation detected right next to the
triangle by the em detectors attached to
the rocket is there a craft flying into
and out of the mesa and does it have
something to do with this 400 foot
metallic object mysteriously buried
under the ground as the inscription says
as above so below
do you guys have a theory as to why when
you dig
more paranormal stuff happens we don't
know why there's obviously a causal
relationship there's a cause and effect
when i told my new friend and director
of atip lou elizondo i was visiting
skinwalker ranch he told me to pray and
humble myself i soon found out why
welcome to homestead 2. thank you this
is the site of
so many things the the energy in here it
feels interesting
well it was interesting we we had post
malone he had a whole security detail
with him we're talking arm to the teeth
they ended up having an experience they
ended up seeing a spectral
image dart through and up through the
roof
one of the most serious illnesses
brought on by the ranch was on october
14 2016. touring the property was a
group of 11 people including a prominent
doctor in his security detail which
included a six foot four former hells
angel member named george i went to the
top of the mesa to get a nice panorama
and the phone started glitching whoa
yeah
at that point members of the group
started to report feelings of vertigo
and nausea
i asked where's our security where's the
big guy and right off in the distance in
this open air polaris utv
stood this big six foot four
figure and as as i walked up just a few
feet from the the ranger and said his
name again yelled his name george
his eyes fluttered open
he looks down at me and he says whoa
that was weird
and i said what are you talking about
and he said well when we pulled up
and you all jumped out i stood up and
was frozen i couldn't move and
everything went black and then he asked
me he said how long have i been standing
here and i said
probably about 10 minutes george later
described feeling scope esthesia the
sense that he was being watched or the
object of predation
the next morning he checked himself into
the hospital down to las vegas he
couldn't he couldn't walk
he couldn't walk he was immobilized
there were no biomarkers to indicate
what had incapacitated him george was
completely out of commission for the
next three to four weeks is it a
coincidence he was hell's angels you're
asking the right question
it seems that those people who have
experienced these these kinds of events
are sort of the
head strong the alpha male the
aggressive
whether they're actually showing
aggression i'm sure it's tempting to
conclude that there may have been some
alteration of brain structures as a
result of exposure to whatever it is do
you have a sense of what the exact brain
structure difference is yes i i've had
it described to me but i don't know if
i'm allowed to talk about that because i
know i know nolan talks about caudate
nucleus and the potato thank you
you said it so it's an area that i've
talked about before between the head of
the caudate and the potamen that had
increased neural density his view is not
that an encounter
makes that part of the brain more
neuronally dense his view is that those
people had more neuronally dense basal
ganglias yes prior and that made them
more predisposed to sort of seeing
that's how it's about yeah right and so
um there have been a few comments made
that suggest that maybe that density
changes
as a result of the exposure but the
story gets even crazier
that day everyone's cell phone batteries
went from eighty percent to zero the
group interrupted their tour to let
their phones recharge it was on the
drive back to retrieve their phones that
they saw something in the sky all of a
sudden
the other security professional shouts
stop the vehicle
stop the vehicle and i'm driving and i
and i ask well what's going on and he's
he's pointing up ahead and i look to
exactly where he's pointing
straight ahead of us above the mesa and
there is literally a
silver grayish
disc-like object
about a hundred feet above the mesa just
sitting there suspended in the air and
all of a sudden that object changed
position probably moved i don't know 50
feet to the left
in the blink of an eye and then a few
seconds later it was reduced to a dot it
was like a bullet darting off in the
distance and was gone that experience
changed my entire world view
my paradigm shifted
i think richard feynman had like a
speech about why ufos are bogus and it's
like all of the things observed on this
property it's like blue orbs metallic
crafts the humming sound like it's like
all this stuff and it's because and you
can't it's hard to create a theory out
of it the phone thing feels key if you
can recreate that somehow in a lab i
love where you you see you should have
been doing this job instead of me
no definitely not
so what i'm going to show you
may offer an explanation for some of
what we've been seeing on the property
it's the very large neodymium magnet and
so what i'm seeing is that when i go
through a certain point and i'll get the
effect
and i'm getting exactly the effect that
i saw on top of mason
in fact you can just picture it you know
it's it's there's a big divergent field
at the at the corner so maybe that
surrounds the ufo well
baby steps you know i do baby steps but
yes yes i see where you're going what
would make sense if you because
everybody talks about antigravity but if
you were to really try to um defeat
gravity you would probably do it with em
well we do know that that people have
been working on things like an em drive
for quite some time and it's very
interesting stuff maybe it's a magnetic
field around the craft that senses the
magnetic field of the earth and then
uses that as gps like they have that
lockheed has like a quantum magnetometer
that they use as gps so why couldn't a
ufo do that i don't believe that the
study of ufo activity from fast walkers
that are
that are being tracked by our
our systems
to
even
programs
dealing with
remote viewing i don't believe that any
of that has either gone dark or ceased i
think it has only been shifted into
the private sector into these special
access programs certainly aerospace
corporations have
knowledge
in the uap area
that specifically are
sequestered by
against foia oh
because of proprietary i appreciate
labels which the whole thing was set up
to be that way
on purpose i
liken it to a big puzzle if you were to
lay a puzzle out on a table
and you were to divvy pieces corners of
that puzzle out
and then
these highly territorial
factions
that are in silos
are created and they're all vying for
budget dollars for both legit
conventional projects and others
and the problem is when
peop no one has
the whole puzzle or an image of the
whole puzzle but they have pieces they
have corners
so homestead three which is where we're
going next is where a lot of people have
negative experiences for whatever reason
my wife refuses to go inside you got to
go get a picture in the chair
yeah i'm not doing any of that
get into the fetal position in
preparation
it seems like every time they engage in
scientific inquiry into the ranch the
instrumentation always malfunctions gps
em lidar sensors even photogrammetry
exercises all produce something wildly
out of place we could do a whole
documentary series on just
the
electromagnetic anomalies and the
equipment malfunctions and failures that
occur
constantly
during the process of
documenting
one of the first things eric barr did
after brandon fugle took over the ranch
was update the surveillance cameras so
these are the kinds of cameras that were
being used i want you to understand
where the bar is set he used a lot of
the same vantage points as bigelow but
he decided to use one additional camera
to monitor the control room itself we
had experienced some really peculiar
things going on with our equipment
as was experienced with the previous
groups the camera had motion detection
and eric would monitor the control room
remotely getting a ping every time
motion was detected one morning after
getting woken up by multiple pings he
got so frustrated that he decided to sit
at the screen with the live feed of the
control room and see what was causing it
i am transfixed on
that tacky room
for all intents and purposes i'm in that
room and so
i just uh i i said out loud okay this is
stupid
and then i said
all right
if you got something you want to show me
show me if you got something you want to
tell me tell me once i
did that what happened was the screen
began to do this and i was like that's
cool let me click back out and click
back in and do it again
screen grab right now i got like i want
to say eight or ten of those and i was
like
there's a bug here
that's what's sending the messages
there's a problem with the equipment the
first screen grab eric made after
issuing his challenge produced this
telling artifact what the hell i living
that's creepy
remember the label was trailer living
room follow the sequence of events i
said if you got something you want to
tell me tell me then this is the
immediate first
screen shot oh god
no no it was like out of a horror movie
exactly is this a coincidence or is this
a trickster entity communicating in
cryptographic ways
it really feels like the group at
skinwalker ranch is dealing with a
conscious entity that shows itself when
it wants to be seen it's almost like the
god of the old testament that's weakly
entangled with reality speaking through
signs profits and cryptographic messages
do these entities have our best
interests at heart do they mean us harm
or do they just incidentally come into
contact with us has alien technology and
meta materials mustered the energy
necessary to warp space-time does this
ability to warp space-time create an
electromagnetic fallout that affects
visitors of skinwalker ranch
i can't deny that which i have seen with
my own eyes
and you couple with that other witnesses
electromagnetic anomalies that occur
simultaneous with so many of these
events and it
it's undeniable yeah it's not a question
of belief right it's now understanding
the nature
of what we are
interacting with you know we've been
steeped in this stuff right ancient
aliens right so let's take some ancient
ancient
prehistoric
tech that is artificially intelligent
and meant to take its directives through
a non-contact neural interface with a
superior neurology to ours and it's
pinging us and it's recognizing
it's what look kind of like handshaking
and and we almost get there and then
some random stuff in our head manifested
this nonsense that's called skinwalker
range phenomenology
this episode begets so many fundamental
questions are certain people with more
neuronally dense basal ganglias more
likely to witness paranormal activity on
the ranch how are people biologically
affected after they make contact on the
ranch in skinwalkers at the pentagon
colm kelleher george knapp and james
lakatsky report hitchhiker effects among
many of the scientists that studied at
skinwalker ranch in fact the phenomenon
often followed these people home was
this interdimensional portal at
skinwalker ranch created by the navajo
was it created by the buffalo soldiers
was it created by the government and its
recent studies
leave a comment and tell me what you
think i will say as far as my personal
experience goes i saw a tri-field meter
go out it had full battery
it's flashing it's now dead i did smell
sulfur which is supposedly a common
thing on the ranch it was enough where i
was like this is
yeah now it's gone right uh
no i got it still and some weird [__]
happened to me when i came back home in
fact working on this episode remotely
from the east coast my editor
encountered the exact same
electromagnetic anomalies experienced by
skinwalker visitors on his computer you
tell me what you think about all this my
contrarian opinion here is we're
actually over indexed on empiricism and
under indexed on theory and we actually
just need better theories to explain all
of these disparate anomalous occurrences
if you're trying to find a needle in a
haystack having more sensors and making
your haystack bigger doesn't necessarily
help i have to say i'm happy and a bit
relieved to leave this episode behind me
until next time i'm jesse michaels and
this is american album